README.md, before:

Salt Master
==========

Config for running a Salt Master in docker, built on the fine work at
[`cdalvaro/docker-salt-master`](https://github.com/cdalvaro/docker-salt-master).


## How to Use

Notes to remind me how to use Salt with a master and minions:


### Add another minion

Ensure that the master is configured in the minion config:
```
master: locke
```

The new minion should show up with the following command.
```
> docker compose exec salt-master salt-key -A
The following keys are going to be accepted:
Unaccepted Keys:
rand
Proceed? [n/Y] Y
Key for minion rand accepted.
```

### View known minions
```
> docker compose exec salt-master salt-key -L
Accepted Keys:
caul
jorg
locke
ringil
Denied Keys:
Unaccepted Keys:
Rejected Keys:
```

### View minion grains
```
docker compose exec salt-master salt 'jorg' grains.items
```

### State apply

Apply a single state, `sshd`, so the host `locke`:
```
docker compose exec salt-master salt 'locke' state.apply sshd
```

## Debugging

Due to the async nature of Salt, and the complex configuration, errors are often non-obvious.

From the master, run a state apply including debug logging:
```
docker compose exec salt-master salt -l debug 'locke' state.apply
```

On the target host, you can tail the minion logs during `state.apply`, but this will show `INFO`
level information that you can see on the `salt-master` after the `state.apply`:
```
sudo tail -f /var/log/salt/minion
```

On the target host, try running the `salt-minion` in the foreground with debug logging:
```
sudo systemctl stop salt-minion
sudo /usr/bin/salt-minion -l debug
```

### View the salt-master config
```
docker compose exec salt-master cat /etc/salt/master
```


## 1Password Connect

A custom external pillar is submoduled from
[`mafrosis/1password-connect-config`](https://github.com/mafrosis/1password-connect-config).

For this to work you need to add following to `config/ext_pillar.conf`:
```
ext_pillar:
  - 1password:
      connect_host: http://example.com:8081
      connect_token: eyJhbGc .. snip .. 2YCkucw
      vault_id: b6hmle4xxxxxxxxxxxxy4lcwza
```

### Authentication

A connect client token should be created and added to the `ext_pillar.conf` file shown above.
```
> op connect token create "$(hostname)-connect" --server ringil --vault Homelab
eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1...snip
```

Find your vault ID with the following:
```
> op vault list
ID                            NAME
b6hmle4xxxxxxxxxxxxx4lcwza    Homelab
h5d36nexxxxxxxxxxxxxgxusqi    Personal
dlhabvtxxxxxxxxxxxxx6needq    Work
```

### Testing

Test the external pillar is working with the following command, which connects from the current
host to the salt master to pull pillar data:
```
sudo salt-call pillar.data
```

Commit message:

Added a note on how to add secrets via 1password

README.md, after:

Salt Master
==========

Config for running a Salt Master in docker, built on the fine work at
[`cdalvaro/docker-salt-master`](https://github.com/cdalvaro/docker-salt-master).


## How to Use

Notes to remind me how to use Salt with a master and minions:


### Add another minion

Ensure that the master is configured in the minion config:
```
master: locke
```

The new minion should show up with the following command.
```
> docker compose exec salt-master salt-key -A
The following keys are going to be accepted:
Unaccepted Keys:
rand
Proceed? [n/Y] Y
Key for minion rand accepted.
```

### View known minions
```
> docker compose exec salt-master salt-key -L
Accepted Keys:
caul
jorg
locke
ringil
Denied Keys:
Unaccepted Keys:
Rejected Keys:
```

### View minion grains
```
docker compose exec salt-master salt 'jorg' grains.items
```

### State apply

Apply a single state, `sshd`, so the host `locke`:
```
docker compose exec salt-master salt 'locke' state.apply sshd
```

## Debugging

Due to the async nature of Salt, and the complex configuration, errors are often non-obvious.

From the master, run a state apply including debug logging:
```
docker compose exec salt-master salt -l debug 'locke' state.apply
```

On the target host, you can tail the minion logs during `state.apply`, but this will show `INFO`
level information that you can see on the `salt-master` after the `state.apply`:
```
sudo tail -f /var/log/salt/minion
```

On the target host, try running the `salt-minion` in the foreground with debug logging:
```
sudo systemctl stop salt-minion
sudo /usr/bin/salt-minion -l debug
```

### View the salt-master config
```
docker compose exec salt-master cat /etc/salt/master
```

## Secrets

To make another secret available in the pillar, add it to the "Homelab" vault in 1password. This
secret will be fetched at run time from `1password-connect`, which runs locally as part of this
compose project.

A multiline secret should be created using a 1Password Secure Note.


## 1Password Connect

A custom external pillar is submoduled from
[`mafrosis/1password-connect-config`](https://github.com/mafrosis/1password-connect-config).

For this to work you need to add following to `config/ext_pillar.conf`:
```
ext_pillar:
  - 1password:
      connect_host: http://example.com:8081
      connect_token: eyJhbGc .. snip .. 2YCkucw
      vault_id: b6hmle4xxxxxxxxxxxxy4lcwza
```

### Authentication

A connect client token should be created and added to the `ext_pillar.conf` file shown above.
```
> op connect token create "$(hostname)-connect" --server ringil --vault Homelab
eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1...snip
```

Find your vault ID with the following:
```
> op vault list
ID                            NAME
b6hmle4xxxxxxxxxxxxx4lcwza    Homelab
h5d36nexxxxxxxxxxxxxgxusqi    Personal
dlhabvtxxxxxxxxxxxxx6needq    Work
```

### Testing

Test the external pillar is working with the following command, which connects from the current
host to the salt master to pull pillar data:
```
sudo salt-call pillar.data
```
